A wealthy but childless merchant wishes he had a child, even a hedgehog. He comes home to find that his wife has given birth to a baby boy that is a hedgehog from the waist up. They then name him "Hans My Hedgehog".
After eight years, Hans leaves his family astride a shod cockerel to seek his fortune. He goes off into the woods and watches over his donkeys and pigs. A few years later, a lost king stumbles upon Hans after hearing him play beautifully on the bagpipes. Hans makes a deal with the king, he will show him the way home if the king promises to sign over whatever first comes to meet him upon his return. However, the king thought Hans was illiterate, and decided to trick him by writing an order that said Hans should receive nothing. When they arrived at the kingdom, the king's daughter ran to greet him. The king told her about the deal Hans had tried to make and how he tricked him. Unconcerned by the betrayal, Hans continues to tend to his animals in the forest.
A second lost king stumbles upon Hans and agreed to his deal. Upon his return, the second king's only daughter rushed out to greet him, and in doing so became the property of Hans. For the sake of her father, the princess happily agreed to Hans's deal.
In time, Hans My Hedgehog goes to claim his promises. The first king attempts to withhold his daughter, but Hans forces him to yield her. Hans then makes her to take off her clothing, pierces her all over with his quills, and sends her back to the kingdom in disgrace. The second king agrees to the marriage; the princess holds herself bound by her promise and Hans My Hedgehog marries her. On their wedding night, he tells the king to build a fire and to post guards at his door. Hans takes off his hedgehog skin and quickly has the guards throw it in the fire. Hans appears black, as if he had been burned. After physicians clean him he is shown to be a handsome young gentleman. After several years Hans returns home to collect his father and they lived together in the kingdom.